#summary This is the guidelines and instructions of the PyPSO toolbox release 0.1.

= Introduction =

PyPSO was developed to be a generic complete particle swarm optimization framework written in pure python, the main goals of PyPSO are:

  * Written in pure python, to maximize the cross-platform issue;
  * Easy to use API, the API must be easy for end-user
  * See the evolution, the user can see and interact with the evolution statistics, graphs and etc;
  * Extensible, the API is extensible, the user can create new representations, swarm operators like communicator, topologies and etc.
  * Fast, the design must be optimized for peformance
  * Common features, the framework must implement the common features: topologies like global topology, local topologies. Communicators schemes like Global Communicators, etc.
 * Default - parameters, we must have default operators, settings, etc. in all options
 * Open-source, the source is for everyone, not for only one.

= Requirements =

PyPSO can be executed on *Windows*, *Linux* and *Mac* platforms.

*Note:* On the Mac platform,  the PyPSO 0.1 can't enter on the Interactive Mode.


Pyevolve requires the follow modules:

  * Python 2.5+
  * Optional, for graph plotting:  Matplotlib 0.98.4+ 
     The matplotlib  is required to plot the graphs.



=Downloads=

==Windows==

Installers for Microsoft Windows platform:

  * PyPSO v.0.1 (installer) for Python 2.5
This is an .exe installer for Microsoft Windows XP/Vista

==Linux==

Installation package for Linux platform:

  * PyPSO  v.0.1 (egg package) for Python 2.5
This is an egg package file

==Mac==

Installation package for Mac OS platform:

  * PyPSO v.0.1 (.tar package) for Python 2.5
This is the .tar archive compressed with the build script.



=Examples and Source code=

  * PyPSO v.0.1 source code (package)
This is an package with the PyPSO source code
  * Examples for PyPSO v.0.1 (package)
This is an package with the PyPSO examples


=Installation=

You can download the specific PyPSO from the Downloads section, or using the python setup.py.

The installation can be easy done by using the python setup script:

The installation can be easy done by using the python setup.py :

{{{
  $ python setup.py install
}}}

This command will automatic install a suitable version of pyPSO, once you have installed, you can test:

{{{
>>> import pypso
>>> print pypso.__version__
'0.1'
}}}


=PSO Features=

== Representations == 
 
 * 1D List

*Note*  It's important to note, that the 1D List can carry any type of python objects or primitives.


=Particle Swarm Optimization Algorithms Literature=
In this section, you will find study material to learn more about PSO Algorithms.

==Books==
Goldberg, David E (1989), Genetic Algorithms in Search, Optimization and Machine Learning, Kluwer Academic Publishers, Boston, MA.

Goldberg, David E (2002), The Design of Innovation: Lessons from and for Competent Genetic Algorithms, Addison-Wesley, Reading, MA.

Fogel, David B (2006), Evolutionary Computation: Toward a New Philosophy of Machine Intelligence, IEEE Press, Piscataway, NJ. Third Edition

Holland, John H (1975), Adaptation in Natural and Artificial Systems, University of Michigan Press, Ann Arbor

Michalewicz, Zbigniew (1999), Genetic Algorithms + Data Structures = Evolution Programs, Springer-Verlag.

===See also===
Wikipedia: Genetic Algorithms
The Wikipedia article about Genetic Algorithms.


==Sites==


=Glossary / Concepts=

*Fitness score*
The fitness score represents the current score of  how good is the individual relative to the swarm in that interaction.
*Evaluation function*
Also called Fitness Function or Objective Function, the evaluation function is the function which evaluates the particle, giving it a fitness score. The objective of this function is to quantify the solutions (individuals, particles)

===See also===
Wikipedia: Fitness Function
An article talking about the Evaluation function, or the “Fitness Function”.

*Particle Base*
The particle base is the particle which are used as configuration base for all the new replicated particles.

*Interactive mode*
PyPSO have an interactive mode, you can enter in this mode by pressing ESC key before the end of the evolution. When you press ESC, a python environment will be load. In this environment, you have some analysis functions and you can interact with the swarm of particles at the specific iteration.

*Step callback function*
This function, when attached to the PSO Engine (PSO.SimplePSO), will be called every iteration. It receives one parameter, the PSO Engine by itself.